assessments: Final Recommendation for the Keycloak security assessment. (#432)
cncf/sig-security: assessments/projects/keycloak/README.md

# Keycloak Security Assessment

Completed: October 2020

Security Reviewers: Ash Narkar, Emily Fox, Matt Hamilton, Krishna Sharma

Project Security Lead: Boleslaw Dawidowicz

Project Team: Stian Thorgersen, Vinod

Source code: https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak

Website: https://www.keycloak.org/

Project version reviewed: v10.0.2

## Background

Keycloak is an open source Identity and Access Management solution aimed at modern applications and services.
It makes it easy to secure applications and services with little to no code.

_Maturity_

The project is being used in production by a number of companies including Accenture, HPE, Bosch, Zalando.
Other companies using Keycloak are documented in [ADOPTERS.md](https://github.com/keycloak/keycloak/blob/master/ADOPTERS.md).

## Summary

### Design

Keycloak follows a modular and layered approach and is built on top of components such as Java Virtual Machine as a
trusted runtime environment. It leverages the WildFly application server for REST API implementation, SSL, Data Sources,
Transaction handling, etc.

Keycloak is intended to be a highly available, scalable and extensible solution providing an implementation for

> modern security standards specifically OAuth2, OIDC.

Author: Done.

### Analysis

In today’s microservice-oriented environments which are diverse and ephemeral in nature, there is a need for an

> open-source solution like Keycloak to provide identity and access management features so that applications can deal

Author: Done

with core functionality instead of dealing with login forms, authenticating users etc.

Keycloak being a critical piece of the infrastructure and its dependency on other components like JVM,

> WildFly Application Server etc. increases its attack surface and could potentially be compromised by attackers.

Author: Updated the section.

taken to properly understand the consequences of different server configuration options and how administrators define
fine-grained access to users in different realms to manage the server.

## Recommendations

### Recommendations for the project team

* Given Keycloak comprises so many moving parts, it would be helpful to perform threat modelling. [KEYCLOAK-15945](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/KEYCLOAK-15945)

* Keycloak documentation contains great information. However, it could be better organized and consolidated so that
users can quickly find the right information. The server installation docs in particular could be more concise to help
users from making any configuration mistakes. It may also be useful to highlight specific terms in the document that
have security impacting configurations. For example, default configuration is not secure but making change X is
recommended from a security perspective. In fact, you could even dedicate a section to “Security” in the docs to helps
users deploy Keycloak in a more secure manner. [KEYCLOAK-15946](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/KEYCLOAK-15946)

> * Although it may be useful for the admin to impersonate a user for debugging purposes, it could be leveraged by an
> attacker to take actions like compromising tokens. The impersonated user sessions is a good way to audit any
> illicit activity in the aftermath but its benefits would be restricted to OIDC sessions. Moreover, any user with the
> realm’s impersonation role can impersonate a user. It would be beneficial to make this more explicit in the
> documentation along with the security consequences of this particular setting so that Keycloak adopters can use
> this powerful capability without increasing exposure of their systems to attacks. [KEYCLOAK-15947](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/KEYCLOAK-15947)

Reviewer: A little verbose, how about something like this (details in issues are fine).

```suggestion
* Keycloak provides the ability for an admin to impersonate a user. This can be useful for multiple purposes but is also a security risk. Documentation should be updated to include security considerations of this particular setting so that Keycloak adopters can make the necessary security decisions. [KEYCLOAK-15947](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/KEYCLOAK-15947)
```

Author: Updated the wording.
